Security hole: Dangerous Constructors still leaking


Original issue 1065 created by erights on 2009-07-05T21:47:29.000Z:
Issue 1045 was closed prematurely. It turns out we didn't completely plug
the hole. I reviewed the flawed fix to issue 1045, so my apologies for not
catching this when I should have. Since Felix found an arbitrary code
execution exploit on issue 1045, I'm classifying this as critical; even
though I have not verified that Felix's exploit continues to work on this
remaining leak.
Regarding the responsible disclosure process, we have an unfortunate
situation, for which I make a second apology. After "myvn up"ing, I fixed a
merge conflict and refactored some for cleanliness. I then posted the CL
containing these fixes and refactorings as a publicly visible incremental
snapshot to <http://codereview.appspot.com/50041/show>. At the time I did
not realize that this change also fixes a security hole, thereby revealing
that hole to astute observers. (At least those more astute that I on both
these occasions.)
I suggest that the right methodology is to maintain my original motivation
as the publicly visible cover story until we close this bug. Comments on
the CL consistent with this cover story should be posted to
codereview.appspot as normal, while other comments on the CL should appear
only privately as entries on this issue.
I write the above suggestion knowing that it will become public once we
close this bug. Responsible disclosure situations cannot be subject to open
community review as it occurs. OTOH, we operate as an open source project
in order to benefit from open community review and participation. The best
we can do to reconcile these goals is full retroactive disclosure of the
process followed.
I will detail the actual security problem in the next entry on this issue.
